Hello everyone and welcome back.
Let's go ahead and talk about nested labour groups.
Now these are going to be essential for managing animation with multiple elements in it like we've got
in front of us here.
And it also helps us keep these elements separated and organized.
So the first thing that we can do here is the war statements at the back we can put them in a lay a
group called wall.
That's important that keeps them separated.
Now I could merge this l.a. group into one big image that would be absolutely fine as well.
However what I don't want to do is muck around with these just yet because it still gives me the option
to move segments in and out if I want to.
However in a moment we'll see that it is important to make a decision and that means no changes from
there onwards without having to do quite a bit of work to potentially fix that.
Of course if we've got something like the lower group wall that can always be updated and moved into
a new frame later on if necessary.
And then we've got the rest of this scene.
They are all individual elements that's absolutely fine and they've got an order to them.
Now this point in time if you're happy with what you're seeing in front of you you can go ahead and
create a new lower group.
In this case it's put it inside the wall we don't want that but I'm going to call this frame one so
we can start building up frame one of our animation.
So we're going to have the wall in that animation in fact we're going to have everything in this animation
and be careful as you're dragging in because sometimes it will end up just dropping it underneath rather
than in.
And of course pay attention to the order of which things are coming in.
Hopefully they will come in in the right order.
Now this is where it gets important that you're happy with the static objects in the scene the ones
that you're not go into annamay.
In this case for me that's probably going to be the tables and the wall statements themselves if I'm
happy with what I can go ahead and do is with frame one selected duplicate the entire layer group.
Now I've got a frame too that I can work on.
And with that I can go in to frame to make changes to let's say the flame itself we can move that one
about and then we can find the other flame and move that one about.
Notice if you use the blurred tool by the way you'll probably have to go into your other layer and also
use it just to make it more consistent because there's a definite change between that and that you can
see is one's got harsh and bright separation one's a bit more blurred.
Again that's a design decision there's no right or wrong here.
I can go into this flame blairites up a little and do the same to the other one and you can see here
how you can very quickly build up an animation.
Now if I toggle between these two frames we can see that that can be built up to actually look like
quite a good animation were almost coming up to the final stage of creating your final animation.
But before we do there is a quick challenge and the challenge is relatively straightforward one I would
like you to organize your layers ready for animation pause video now and give that a go.
Okay everyone welcome back.
Let's just have a quick look at my organization and make sure everything is ready to go.
So we've got our two layers here that we can alternate between and just make sure that the idea behind
the animation is going to work.
I'm happy with that but let's just have a closer look at the layer itself and make sure that we're not
missing something or any optimization that's required.
So the first thing that we can see is that the whole labour group this blue and black border is larger
than the actual image itself so I think we can do a bit of optimization here because when we've got
multiple frames going on we're going to start chewing through our available memory.
I'm going to go ahead and delete frame too for the moment there's no value there at that at the present
time.
So our torch is quite tall.
We can go through an auto crop the layer as necessary that that torch itself is fine.
The flame looks fine.
The flames scatter also looks fine.
It looks like have optimized those.
The table itself could probably be optimized a little more.
Yeah.
Certainly done that.
And the same is true of these layers as well.
Now are the flame can be reduced to little.
It does depend of course how blurry you've made it with the smudge taut.
If you've done that Bob demising these things will have benefits.
Not necessarily at this moment in time but certainly later on.
Another little tip and trick that you can do when animating is is go to layer and actually just transform
that layer and flip it horizontally and then you just get a mirror image that you can alter a great
way of adding variation to a scene.
So you've got the candle on the table that's not got any animation on it at the moment.
However when I do go ahead to animated there's going to realistically need to be in its own layer a
group called candle group.
I'm going to call it candle group because if I just call it candle then we're going to have issues because
it's just going to end up with hash one on me and later groups and layers can not share the same name.
You've got another table down here.
I didn't check the candle the candles huge so we can alter crop that down table.
I thought I'd done that's the sort of crop that down.
And then finally the story here as well it looks like we can alter crop as well.
So there we go.
We've pretty much optimized everything that we need to optimize.
I'm happy with frame one.
I'm not going to make any other alterations to the background it is important if you're planning on
doing that.
You do do that as soon as possible rather than when you've made several frames because once you've made
several frames you'll have to individually replace anything you change rather than just being able to
go ahead and hit the duplicate button worth bearing that in mind.
So I hope you're now all optimized and ready to go.
And I'm getting excited now because it's almost time for the final challenge.